When diplomacy fails,
there's only one alternative--
violence.
Force must be applied
without apology.
It's the Starfleet way.
Then our philosophies
are in agreement.
Will you help us?
to fight your war,
You're asking me
destroy your enemy.
to intimidate the Kyrians
I'm asking you
with your technology...
help me capture their leader.
has superior firepower.
This ship
He won't risk a conflict
with you.
We risk life and limb
can annex Kyrian land.
so your people
good deal for you.
Sounds like a
What do we get?
A way home.
You know more about Voyager
than you've let on.
Your reputation in this
Quadrant precedes you.
sought you out.
That's why we
I'm listening.
five days' journey from here.
There's a cyclic wormhole
We know where it is
and we can help you
stabilize it.
If you are lying...
How far do you have to go?
60,000 light-years?
regarding your little war:
I want all tactical data
Kyrian defenses,
the position of
your own forces,
everything.
within the hour.
You'll have it
( alarm blaring )
Eight Kyrian fighter-ships
approaching.
Arm the assault probes.
Fire at will.
Hail them.
Channel open.
This is Captain Janeway
of the warship Voyager.
Break off your attack,
or I'll destroy you.
not responding.
They are
TUVOK:
( rumbling )
They're returning fire.
Shields are holding.
tracking down their leader?
Chako-tay, any luck
Not yet.
We think Tedran has
gone into hiding.
I thought he might.
JANEWAY:
We'll have to flush him out.
What do you suggest?
Biogenic weapons.
We'll infect
Kyrian territories.
the most populated
The Doctor's nearly done
working on the weapon.
himself, not with his people.
Our conflict is with Tedran
They're innocent.
to bring down a ruler
The best way
is to make his people suffer.
Captain...
This is no time
for half-measures.
You wanted victory.
You're going to get it.
Bridge to Sick Bay.
Status?
We have established
a datalink
between my neural net
and the phaser array.
I am reconfiguring the beam
into the planet's atmosphere.
to carry a bio-agent
When will it be ready?
JANEWAY:
It is ready now, Captain.
Phasers are on line.
Target the first city.
And fire.
The Warship Voyager--
MALE:
one of the most powerful vessels
of its time.
Armed with photonic torpedoes
and particle weapons,
this ship of destruction
civilization within hours.
could wipe out an entire
in history, we were lucky.
On this particular day
could've been much worse.
The death toll
By the time Voyager
targeted our major cities,
Tedran had already begun
an evacuation.
Thousands of lives
were saved.
Unfortunately, it was
only the beginning
of Captain Janeway's onslaught.
As you'll see,
lasting effect on our world.
her actions would have a
Even today, 700 years later,
we are still feeling the impact
of the Voyager encounter.
Before we continue
the simulation,
any questions you might have.
I'd like to answer
I'm curious about
Voyager itself.
How many people
were on board?
they had a complement
We believe
of over 300 soldiers.
other worlds, as well?
Did they attack
Well, we aren't certain.
Records of Voyager's travels
through our Quadrant
but it's safe to assume
are incomplete,
with many other cultures, yes.
that they interfered
Tell us more about
the Borg drones
they kept on the ship.
Voyager had many weapons
at their disposal,
assimilated along the way:
including species they'd
Borg, Talaxian, Kazon.
They were captured
and made to work
as part of Voyager's
fighting force.
Let's resume the simulation,
and you can see
for yourself.
the initial bombardment.
It's a few hours after
Janeway and her squadron
are on the Bridge,
mounting their assault.
are about to see
Now, what you
is graphic and unsettling.
Status.
Status!
3,000 Kyrians dead.
Approximately
That's it?
JANEWAY:
The bio-agent
TUVOK:
is still dispersing
through the atmosphere.
The fatality rate
will be 300,000
soon enough.
How soon?
Best guess--
one hour.
keep me waiting, Tuvok?
Why do you always
My apologies.
Preparing to fire again.
Double the yield.
Captain, don't you think
that's excessive?
You picked a bad time
to have second thoughts,
Ambassador.
I want them defeated,
but... but this is genocide.
Defeat? Genocide?
Why quibble with semantics?
This wasn't our agreement.
We're going to defeat
the Kyrians
and you're going to keep up
your end of the bargain.
( rumbling )
Ensign,
confine this gentleman
to the brig.
I'll let you know
when it's over.
Three more
Kyrian vessels approaching.
Evade them.
Aye, aye, sir.
The location?
Look... I can keep
this up all day.
what he wants to know.
Tell the Commander
Maybe I can't keep
this up all day.
I'm a man of peace.
are enlightened...
My native people
nonviolent...
much like your own.
I'm saddened that this
has happened to you.
If we can work together,
maybe we can end
this conflict.
Stand aside, Chako-tay.
Let me hit him.
That hyperspanner
would cause
an unacceptable
level of damage.
I remind you--
be able to speak.
he must still
What do you have in mind?
This neural solvent--
a clean and efficient
inducer of pain--
far more effective
attempts at persuasion.
than your crude
No doubt you are experiencing
a tingling sensation
behind your eyes.
The chemical is dissolving
your optic nerves.
I'll ask you again.
Where is Tedran?
The pain will increase
exponentially
DOCTOR:
cortex begins to liquefy.
until your cerebral
I can reverse
the process...
if ordered to do so.
And I want to give
that order.
to tell me...
But you have
where is Tedran?
these coordinates.
He's here, at
CHAKOTAY:
Assuming our prisoner
told you the truth.
very cooperative at the end.
Oh, believe me, he was
Neelix?
a fortified compound
I'm reading
beneath the surface.
1.6 kilometers
Chako-tay,
take an assault team
you and Tuvok
and find Tedran.
Make sure he's escorted
safely to Voyager.
Yes, sir.
( rumbling )
What now?
Intruders. Four Kyrians just
beamed into the Engine Room.
Bridge to Engineering.
JANEWAY:
Respond.
They've erected
force fields.
Our soldiers can't get in.
They've left me no choice.
Computer...
activation sequence.
initiate the Borg
Sequence in progress.
COMPUTER:
Bridge to Seven of Nine.
JANEWAY:
State your instructions.
A group of Kyrians
is in the Engine Room.
Stop them.
We understand.
Resistance is futile.
Seven of Nine to the Bridge.
has been neutralized.
The Kyrian threat
Acknowledged.
Two of the Kyrians
are still alive.
What shall we do with them?
to expand your fighting force.
Well, you've been wanting
Assimilate them.
We understand.
I just received word
from the attack team.
Good news, Lieutenant?
Very.
They've captured Tedran
and one of his aides.
They're heading back
to Voyager.
Take them to Chamber 19
Vaskan Ambassador.
and get the
This is one negotiation
he won't want to miss.
Welcome aboard.
your hospitality.
I appreciate
Are all your guests
treated so well?
Well, it's not every day
such an important visitor--
that we receive
the great Tedran...
a man of wisdom and peace...
a servant of his people.
Well, your people need you,
now more than ever.
State your demands.
Tell your forces to stand down,
and I'll call off my attack.
what the Vaskans want--
I understand
more of our territory...
more resources.
But what do you want,
Captain?
doing this to us?
Why are you
He's offered my crew a way home.
you would destroy ours?
To reach your home,
That's right.
And you'd do the same
in my position.
No, I would not.
Spoken like a true martyr.
You're very enlightened.
But are you so proud...
that you'd let your people die
before you'd humble yourself?
Tell them to surrender.
You have shamed us all.
ended this on our own...
We could've
peacefully...
without her.
Surrender.
No.
We will prevail.
Don't look so shocked,
Ambassador.
JANEWAY:
This is what you wanted,
isn't it?
was brief but brutal--
The ensuing conflict
slaughtered within days.
two million Kyrians
continued on its way,
The Warship Voyager
leaving the Kyrian
dynasty in ruins.
The Vaskan leaders proceeded
to occupy our lands,
into subservience.
forcing my people
It took centuries for us
to undo the damage
that Captain Janeway
had done.
for equality is far from over.
And the Kyrian struggle
This simulation
and this museum
to that struggle.
are a testament
your experience here worthwhile.
I hope you found
If you'd like to learn
more about Voyager
in the history of our planet,
and its role
the rest of this exhibit.
I suggest you explore
Thank you for your time.
to try the simulation.
Please, feel free
MALE:
Oh, thank you
very much.
MALE 2:
that if I were you.
I wouldn't touch
One of the Voyager's
torpedoes--
25-isoton yield.
It could destroy an entire
city within seconds.
It's been inactive
for centuries,
but you never know.
but, please, be careful.
No, I'm only teasing,
If we damage any
of these relics,
they can never
be replaced.
The history of our people
should be respected.
about that history.
I have a question
Please.
How can you prove
that it's true?
Take a closer look.
The evidence is
all around you.
Some musty fossils
and a re-creation?
prove anything.
That doesn't
I disagree.
blame the Vaskans
You're trying to
for all your troubles,
the way you always do.
I don't have a problem
with your species.
I have Kyrian friends,
but I don't appreciate
being portrayed as villains
seeing my people
in your little simulation,
and I certainly don't want
your history taught
to my children.
get used to the idea,
Well, you'd better
because we've just uncovered
an artifact that's going
to confirm everything
you've seen here.
Three weeks ago,
found a data-storage device
our research team
beneath the ruins at Kesef.
buried nine meters
that it came from Voyager.
I've confirmed
Another fossil?
The device contains
active data...
possibly crew logs--
even Captain Janeway's
personal almanac.
In the next few days,
we could be hearing
Voyager's version
of these events,
in their own words!
And what if those words
tell a different story?
What then?
We will change our views
accordingly.
I'm sure you will.
I apologize.
Please, enjoy
the rest of your visit.
"The Voyager Encounter."
Activate re-creation:
Display Engine Room.
Begin dictation.
I'm resuming work
on artifact 271:
data-storage device.
the Voyager
I've decided to try
using period tools
from the simulation itself.
they'll be more compatible.
With any luck,
Hmm...
there's far more data here
than I expected.
Seems more like a program
of some sort.
Yes.
Yes!
It's an optronic datastream...
a hologram.
of the medical emergency.
Please state the nature
( staticky ):
of the medical emergency.
Please state the nature
I recognize you.
You're Voyager's Doctor.
What am I doing in Engineering?
Where's my mobile emitter?
You're not an android.
What are you talking about?
Of course not.
A Kyrian.
Doctor to the Bridge.
Intruder alert!
Security to Engineering!
much luck with that.
You won't have
Nothing in here is real.
It's a simulation.
A holodeck?
No.
You're in the Museum
of Kyrian Heritage.
You've stolen my program.
How?
Please...
let me try to explain.
Try quickly.
You...
are a hologram.
That I know.
Uh... I just discovered
your program
inside this data-storage device.
That's the EMH backup module.
One of your attack parties must
have taken it from Sick Bay.
Actually, we found it
at the ruins at Kesef.
I know this will be difficult
for you to accept,
but a great deal
of time has passed
encountered the Kyrians.
since Voyager
How much time?
700 years, give
or take a decade.
We're not certain.
I don't believe you.
Think about it.
When your program
is inactive,
a moment or a millennium
are the same to you.
700 years?
What about my ship?
What happened to my crew?
No one knows.
It's safe to say
they're long dead.
And I'm some sort of...
fossil?
No, not a fossil--
a witness, a living
witness to history.
know about what happened,
There's so much we don't
but you saw it.
You lived through
those times.
You helped to shape them.
Doctor, you could be the
most important discovery
of all time.
No, this isn't possible.
Doctor...
I don't believe you.
Doctor!
What's going to happen
to me now?
Will you put me on display?
The holographic
Rip van Winkle?
I'm not sure.
to contact Starfleet...
I want to try
if there still
is a Starfleet.
That will have to wait.
Wait for what?
issues to be resolved.
There are other...
What kind of issues?
You're the Voyager Doctor.
A lot of people are going
to have questions.
On our world,
are considered sentient
artificial life-forms
for their actions.
and responsible
to face charges.
You might have
Charges?
For your crimes.
the bio-weapons that
You designed
killed eight million
Kyrians.
I did nothing of the sort.
that you were a war criminal.
All of our evidence shows
Evidence? What evidence?
Like this, for example?
Triple-armored hull?
30 torpedo tubes?
25 phaser banks?
This isn't what our ship
looked like.
We reconstructed it
from a partial schematic
found in the Cyrik Ocean...
which was badly damaged
by corrosion.
We were bound to get
a few details wrong.
Voyager wasn't a warship.
We were explorers!
trying to get home, to Mars.
Yes, I know--
Earth! You see, you couldn't
even get that right!
This is a nightmare.
found guilty?
What if I'm
to happen to me?
What's going
That's up to the Arbiters.
the penalty would be severe.
But I imagine
could be decompiled.
Your program
to believe me.
You've got
be ancient history.
To you, this may
To me, it's yesterday.
You called me a living witness.
give me the chance
Well, at least
to set the record straight.
I want to see your version
of what happened.
We've already drained
two phaser banks,
and he hasn't hit anything.
console once in awhile,
If you looked at your
the female ensigns,
instead of chasing
you'd see otherwise.
Tom's right.
KIM:
This war was supposed
to be over in five minutes.
You have a better idea,
Lieutenant?
of fact, I do.
As a matter
Fighter shuttles--
a direct assault.
Led by you? Good luck.
Watch your mouth, hedgehog.
a single good idea.
I haven't heard
Well, then propose something,
First Officer.
Earn your rank for once.
Get away from us...
CHAKOTAY:
Gentlemen...
Gentlemen!
Save it for the holodeck.
We've got a war to fight.
We've only been attacking
installations-- a mistake.
the Kyrian military
the general population.
We should target
Excellent idea, Captain.
I've examined the Kyrian genome,
and they would be vulnerable
biological weapons.
to any number of
How soon could you
have one ready?
JANEWAY:
Within the hour.
Dismissed.
Pure fiction.
This is absurd.
Halt re-creation.
QUARREN:
This is a reasonable
extrapolation
from historic record.
But if you'd like
to point out any
inconsistencies...
Inconsistencies?!
I don't know
where to begin.
like the briefing room,
Granted, this looks
the people I knew.
but these aren't
No one behaved like this.
Well... aside from Mr. Paris.
at each other's throats.
We weren't
how to destroy planets.
We didn't talk about
We helped people.
We were an enlightened crew.
Are you denying these
events took place?
Yes.
Are you saying you
never got involved
between my people
in the conflict
Yes!
and the Vaskans?
Well, no, we did get involved,
but it was nothing
like this.
Elaborate.
There was a meeting
in this room,
about battle tactics,
but it wasn't
it was about a dilemma
we were facing.
agreement with the Vaskans.
We had negotiated a trade
a representative, Ambassador...
We were dealing with
Ambassador Daleth.
Daleth. Exactly.
Everything was going
according to plan...
until...
...we were attacked...
by your people, the Kyrians.
They'd picked that moment
to start a war
and we were caught
in the middle.
The Kyrians were the aggressors?
No, no, that can't be right.
this meeting to figure out
Captain Janeway called
how we could extricate ourselves
from the conflict
and still maintain the trade
agreement with the Vaskans.
But we weren't on their side,
never attacked you.
and we certainly
you see the entire re-creation.
Save your objections until
Let's continue.
We will prevail.
Don't look so shocked,
Ambassador.
JANEWAY:
This is what you wanted,
isn't it?
across the galaxy, I hope--
Somewhere-- halfway
is spinning in her grave.
Captain Janeway
You've portrayed us
as monsters.
a cold-blooded killer;
The Captain's
the crew's a gang of thugs;
and I'm a mass murderer.
Why should I?
Calm yourself.
I'm about to be hanged
for crimes I didn't commit.
version of events.
Tell me your
I remember this man.
Tedran.
He was a martyr
to our people.
Some martyr.
He led the Kyrian attack
against Voyager.
I was there.
You're lying.
You're trying to
protect yourself.
And so are you!
From the truth.
Isn't it a coincidence
that the Kyrians are
being portrayed
in the best
possible light?
Martyrs, heroes, saviors.
have been reinterpreted
Obviously, events
feel better about themselves.
to make your people
Revisionist history...
it's such a comfort.
We were not the aggressors
in the Great War.
We were the victims.
anywhere on this world.
The proof can be found
being oppressed to this day.
The Kyrian people are
The problems in your society
are none of my business.
what I saw 700 years ago.
I'm just telling you
and neither will anyone else.
I don't believe you,
What are you doing?
Shutting down your program.
Wait. Please. I...
to you I'm right.
I can prove
The medical tricorder--
you have on display.
the artifact
If you just let me...
Lies.
Begin dictation.
I've reexamined the data module
and from what I can tell, the
Doctor was telling the truth--
at least about one thing.
He is a hologram,
a backup program.
an artificial life-form,
We always knew he was
he was an android.
but we thought
If we were mistaken
about that...
be wrong about Voyager itself.
I wonder if we might also
Another question,
designed for medical purposes
Why would a hologram
be programmed to lie so readily?
From the moment I activated him,
this Doctor has insisted
that he's innocent.
didn't believe him.
At first, I...
End dictation.
"The Voyager Encounter."
Activate re-creation:
Display Medical Chamber.
( beeping )
Please state the nature
of the medical...
Oh. It's you.
You've given me a lot
to think about.
Really?
I thought you'd heard enough
of my... lies.
I judged you too quickly.
I'm sorry.
What changed your mind?
Time to think.
For your information,
I don't appreciate
in the middle of a sentence.
being deactivated
It brings back...
unpleasant memories.
It won't happen again.
Good.
Because if you don't stop
treating me
like a second-class hologram,
with your investigation.
I won't cooperate
I'm perfectly happy
to lie dormant
in that data module
for a few eons.
I didn't come here to argue.
Then what do you want?
I don't know.
To talk, I guess,
about what really happened
700 years ago.
you're willing to listen
Are you sure
to a mass-murderer like me?
I'm willing to keep
an open mind.
That's the most I can promise.
Try to understand
my point of view.
All my life, I thought
I knew the truth.
There was never any doubt.
your beliefs into doubt,
I never meant to throw
what I know to be true.
but I can't deny
I realize that now...
know the truth.
and I want to
And I want the Arbiters
to know it, too.
Well...
the stage is certainly set,
rewrite the characters
but I'll have to
the plot a little.
and revise
I'm quite adept in the art
of holographic programming.
If you'll give me access
to your technology,
simulation of my own...
maybe I can create a
show you what happened.
Don't worry, Ambassador.
of medical supplies,
We've got plenty
and we'd be more than happy
to share them with you.
Then we agree.
we'll provide you
In exchange,
with as much dilithium
as you need.
That's very generous,
Ambassador.
the canisters immediately.
I'll transport
your best interest
It would be in
exchange quickly.
to make this
Oh? Why is that?
We've been in conflict
with a neighboring species,
the Kyrians.
They've been threatening
to attack us.
War could break out
any day.
every diplomatic option,
We've tried
a violent, stubborn people.
but the Kyrians are
what you're going through.
No problem. I understand
I wish I could make you
one of our diplomats.
have better luck
You might
resolving this situation.
circumstances...
Under different
Janeway to Sick Bay.
This is the Doctor.
have reached an agreement.
Ambassador Daleth and I
Assemble the medical supplies.
Done, Captain. The supplies
are in Cargo Bay 1.
to the surface, there may be...
Once we transport the supplies
( rumbling )
Red Alert.
TUVOK:
Captain Janeway to the Bridge.
We're being fired on
by three ships.
TUVOK:
The Kyrians.
Hail them.
Channel open.
TUVOK:
This is Captain Janeway
of the Starship Voyager.
We are not your enemies.
off your attack.
Please break
They're not responding.
to retreat, Captain.
I'd advise you
to 86 percent.
Shields down
Put some distance between us.
Break out of orbit.
Yes, ma'am.
( alarm sounding )
Four intruders.
They are in Engineering.
Janeway to Engineering.
B'Elanna, respond.
Tuvok.
Take as much of their
technology as you can.
You will fail.
Drop your weapons.
Back away.
Tuvok to Janeway.
Go ahead.
The Kyrians have killed three
of the Engineering crew.
They've taken Seven of Nine
and one of the injured
crew members hostage.
They're now on Deck 2,
Section 32.
Acknowledged.
to make me a diplomat?
Remember your offer
Well, it looks like I don't
have much of a choice.
we have casualties.
Tell the Doctor
Have him meet
us on Deck 2.
Janeway to Tuvok.
We're approaching
Section 31.
The evacuation of Deck 2
is complete.
TUVOK:
Send three security
teams to this deck,
the access points.
then seal all
Acknowledged.
How typical of the Kyrians.
What do you mean?
They fight the same way
they live-- deviously.
( footsteps approaching )
Janeway to Tuvok.
Tuvok here.
the Mess Hall. We're going in.
The Kyrians are in
Security is on the way.
and draw any fire, if need be.
I'll go first, Captain,
heroic, Captain.
Your crew is
invulnerable to phaser fire,
I just happen to be
the compliment. Captain?
but I appreciate
Go.
DALETH:
Tedran...
this is between us.
Leave these people
out of it.
you're doing--
I know what
with these aliens.
an alliance
We were trading with them,
nothing more.
You expect me to believe that?
You plan to use this ship
to destroy us.
if we wanted to destroy you.
We wouldn't need help
We didn't realize you were
fighting with the Vaskans.
Now, lay down your weapons,
you won't be harmed.
and I promise
( door opens )
No!
( groans )
( tricorder beeping )
( steady tone sounds )
He's dead.
Computer, freeze program.
DOCTOR:
A tragic, needless death,
Voyager was not responsible.
but, as you can see,
After Tedran was killed,
by nine Kyrian ships.
Voyager was attacked
My program was disabled,
stole my backup module.
most likely when they
The next thing I knew,
I was standing next
to this gentleman,
seven centuries later.
Very entertaining.
I'll admit your holo-technology
is new to me.
I had to extrapolate
in a few places,
but I assure you, this is
an accurate re-creation.
it's the fabrication
Perhaps. Or perhaps
who's afraid for his life.
of a war criminal
evidence to support
Do you have any
VASKAN:
your explanation?
In fact, I do.
this is the same tricorder
I've confirmed that
at the moment of his death.
I used to scan Tedran
the bio-readings inside,
If I can access
I can prove that he was killed
by a Vaskan weapon,
not by Captain Janeway.
Can this be done?
I've been trying to decipher
the instrument for years,
but with the Doctor's help...
I fail to see what
this would prove.
Tedran died on Voyager,
a victim of a conspiracy
to oppress my people.
The weapon used,
who fired it--
beside the point.
this is all
Was there a conspiracy?
Did Voyager really help
my ancestors
to start the Great War,
or were Kyrians
the aggressors,
have always believed?
as my people
No, this casts
doubt on everything.
the fact that my children
But it doesn't change
can't attend the same
academies as yours,
or that we are forced to live
outside of the city center.
are not at issue here.
Today's problems
This is about history.
who started your war.
Look, I don't know
Voyager wasn't responsible.
All I'm saying is that
that you would cooperate
I can't believe
with this murderer--
you, of all people.
You built this museum.
turning out to be
The facts are
than I expected.
more complex
We shouldn't be listening
to this hologram.
I want him arrested
and charged
we know he committed.
for the crimes
That's not your decision
to make.
No, it's not, is it?
this commission
I'm only on
because you needed
a token Kyrian.
This isn't about race.
Please.
It's always about race.
You seize every
opportunity
to keep yourselves
in power.
I'm sorry you see it that way.
I think we are obligated
to hear what the Doctor
has to say.
Proceed with your investigation.
Yes, Arbiter.
You'll pay for your crimes.
and I'm still caught
700 years,
of your little dispute.
in the middle
One might have hoped
for a bit of social progress
in the interim.
Change never comes
easily for us.
an understatement.
Humph. That's
I've entered the
specifications
that you gave me.
Let's give it a try.
Close enough.
should help me get past
This diagnostic tool
encryption sequences.
the initial
Too bad we can't re-create
B'Elanna Torres.
Transporter Operator.
Torres... the Chief
Chief Engineer.
You might want to make
in your history books.
the correction
What was she like-- Torres?
her personality wrong, too.
I suppose we've gotten
Starting to believe
me, are you?
trying to keep an open mind.
Well, let's just say I'm
B'Elanna Torres...
intelligent, beautiful,
and with a chip
on her shoulder
the Horsehead Nebula.
the size of
a kind of vulnerability
She also had
that made her...
quite endearing.
You miss her...
and the others.
From my perspective,
only a few days ago.
I saw them all
it's been centuries.
But in fact,
And I'll never see them again.
Did they ever reach home?
I wonder.
I've always wondered that, too.
From as far back
as I can remember.
Really?
I was a small child,
Ever since
the first time I heard
the name Voyager,
it conjured up
my imagination.
Even though we were
the bad guys?
That didn't matter.
I was too young
the implications.
to understand
The fact that you were
so far from home,
traveling across the stars.
Oh, I found it all very heroic.
I suppose Voyager
is what made me fall in love
with history.
If it means anything to you,
a fine member of our crew.
you would have made
( rumbling )
I hope that's part
of the simulation.
No, it isn't.
( glass shattering )
( people shouting )
( glass shattering,
shouting continues )
( all shouting )
( screaming )
No! Stop this!
We know about the hologram!
filled with lies!
This museum's
Stop! Listen to me!
We've listened long enough!
They're using photon grenades.
We've got to take cover.
This way.
( distant weapons fire
and explosions )
I've been hearing weapons.
What's happening?
It's getting worse.
two people have been killed.
Protests, vandalism...
cordoned off the museum.
Don't worry. They've
We're safe for now.
what I'm concerned about.
That's not
Two deaths, a race riot,
all because of me?
You were only the catalyst.
The pressure's been
building for years.
It was only a matter of time
before something set it off.
Have you found
the tricorder?
Not yet.
It's crucial that we do.
The Kyrians are demanding you
be punished for your crimes,
but the Vaskans want to hear
your version of events again.
They want to continue
the investigation.
What's going to happen?
I don't know.
The Vaskans are more powerful,
but the Kyrians are very angry.
about another war.
They're talking
Then there's only one solution.
Delete my program.
I've become a kind of symbol
for this conflict.
As long as I'm around,
your people are going
to keep on fighting.
how to decompile my program.
I'll show you
You can say I was damaged
in the attack last night.
No one will hold
you responsible.
I can't do that to you.
Then I'll do it myself.
No!
I'm a medical hologram...
programmed to do no harm,
but I'm doing harm
on a global scale.
Ever since you reactivated
me, I've been concerned
Voyager's good name.
with clearing
But that's not important now.
There's more at stake.
A few days ago, I might
have agreed with you.
But what about the facts?
Facts be damned!
it's all open to interpretation.
Names, dates, places--
what really happened?
Who's to say
what difference does it make?
And ultimately,
the future of your people.
What matters is today and
You can't deny what happened.
Doctor, you were there.
I can... and I will.
for your people, a hero,
Tedran was a martyr
a symbol of your struggle
for freedom.
Who am I to wander in
700 years later
and take that away from you?
History has been abused!
for what happened in the past.
We keep blaming each other
it could be another 700 years.
If you don't help us now,
Let's find that tricorder.
It was a pivotal moment
in our history.
of the Doctor's testimony,
As a result
a dialogue was opened
between our peoples.
Eventually, we found
a new respect
for our divergent cultures
and traditions.
like Quarren and the Doctor
The efforts of people
paved the way for unity.
Quarren died six years later,
to witness the Dawn of Harmony.
but he lived long enough
And the Doctor...
well, he served as our Surgical
Chancellor for many years,
until he decided to leave.
He took a small craft
and set a course
for the Alpha Quadrant,
attempting to trace
the path of Voyager.
He said he had a longing...
for home.
This way.